Okay guys, let's start. Um,
good morning, good afternoon, good
evening.
Hope you are well.
Uh, so I'm going to start from the
moment that we stopped yesterday. So we
were actually almost at the end of this
topic.
uh and our topic was about entities and
migrations. So to summarize everything,
I've shown you how to create an entity.
Uh then the fact that we use entity
repositories to fetch those data from
database
uh how to do it properly, you have one
way to use manager registry and then
manager for class and repository for for
this class. or you can go with shortened
version just use another service
doctrine helper for this and fetch
entity repository just with this one
method
uh then I've shown you uh how to how to
make your entity configurable and that
we can very easily uh turn on or off
some functionalities for our entity
based on this entity configuration
uh and that we can do it from the UI and
how to do it from code.
Uh then uh we talked about extended
entities. Uh so how to make entity
extendable
uh and then
how to actually extend existing entities
like core ones. So here you have uh
examples how to add a field to some
extended entity uh and how to add
relation
uh and a little bit about entity alias
is basically the fact that we're using
them and they are generated based on
some rules and that you can always
change it in entity. file if you want.
Uh then regarding the migrations we
talked about this whole flow. So first
of all we have four two elements uh for
the schema changes installer and
migrations
uh and actually about uh those two
elements how to load data to database we
haven't spoken yet
uh and regarding installer and
migrations we talked uh through the
schema so
how this flow actually is happening from
the beginning when you create a bundle
you have only installer then you have
migration uh first second and so on and
so on.
I've shown you where to put the
installer so it needs to be in migration
schema uh and needs to implement
installation
and basically you have here the
complicated version of installer because
the product bundle installer is a long
one. So you'll have probably almost all
the examples inside here.
Uh and then I've shown you where to put
migrations. Okay. So also inside
migration schema uh then next directory
it's migration version directory and
file name is actually up to you. Uh and
here also you have example of some
migration. the fact that we are using
schema object here and
uh here is actually example how to add a
post query but on previous slide uh from
the installer you have example how to
use the schema object so how to create a
table or get existing table and just add
a column there uh and so on so basically
migration and installer inside they both
have this app method and inside here
they look exactly the Okay, just
migrations are used to uh adjust
existing DB schema and in installer we
have the whole um structure for your
bundle
and to load both installer and
migrations there is one command and it's
called oruro migration load and this
command has a um safety switch. So if
you execute it like this uh it will not
do anything. you need to put the force
flag for it to be executed.
Uh okay. So last two elements. Uh so
basically now you know uh where to
create the installer and how this
installer can look like how to add a
table, add a column etc.
Um and right now when you already have
tables you sometimes want to fill them
with data. Sometimes those data will be
a demo data but sometimes those will be
like some configuration or basically for
example product units. Okay. So product
units are not demo data. They are just
like a data that needs to be there
otherwise without product units
application will not work. We will not
be able to have prices etc. So we need
to have always some product units
loaded. Uh so with those data fixtures
you can basically fill database with
some data uh and those are considered
like normal data not demo data.
So here we're using doctrine data
fixtures. So nothing uh like installer
and migration this was uh or way uh data
fixtures are doctrine way here we
actually interact with orum. So we're
going to create objects like new
something and then set values and
persist it to database.
Um and migration sits inside migrations
data OM. Okay. So in this particular
particular directory
um we will search for uh data fixtures
and we'll load them all and the file
name is totally up to you.
uh example of this data fixture.
So it's inside migrations data ORM and
this is basically loading product unit
data. So we need to extend abstract
fixture from the doctrine
package and then basically we have a
load method in which we have the
manager. Okay. So we basically create an
object fill it with some data then
persist this object and then we need to
do flash to save this to database. Clear
it's not usually needed.
Okay. What more
uh data fixtures can be dependent
ordered and versioned. Uh so if you have
data fixtures in multiple bundles and
you want to make sure that one fixture
will be executed after the other fixture
but they are not in the same bundle not
in the same directory. Uh so for this we
have dependent fixture interface. Uh and
this is basically an interface that will
force you to specify that your fixture
is dependent to some other. Okay, let's
uh
depend on fixture interface.
Okay,
let's say
maybe not in tests.
Okay, it actually doesn't
doesn't matter. Uh, normally it looks
exactly the same. Um
so we want to make sure that this
particular fixture is loaded after after
some other. So for example users should
be loaded after organization because
user need to be assigned to some
organization. So if you want to create a
user uh you need to make sure that
organizations are already in place and
in this particular situation you'll your
fixture will implement dependent fixture
interface and this interface will force
you to specify dependencies and this is
basically an array of other fixtures
that needs to be loaded before this one.
Uh then we have ordered and this is
exactly the same as for uh migrations.
So if you have multiple fixtures in one
directory in your bundle and you want to
make sure that they will be executed in
some particular order then you have
ordered fixture interface for this. Uh
and the third one is version fixture
interface and this is for you to be able
to load the same uh fixture multiple
times because by default it will be
loaded once. this fact will be uh noted
inside the database that this fixture
was already uh executed and uh you won't
be able to execute it again. Uh to do
that we have a ver version fixture
interface.
Okay.
And basically for example for the email
templates. Okay. So we are loading email
templates and then at some point your
customer might want to change the this
email template. Uh so you want to
basically
uh execute this particular fixture again
just change the um
the template for the email. Okay. So
this fixture is actually taking uh those
files, those HTML twig files from here
and loading them. And this is my uh
email template. So when I do any change
here, I also need a way to be able to
execute this fixture once more. So for
this we have version fixture interface.
Uh and here this interface forces you to
specify the get version method. And here
you just return one zero. Then if when
you change something in this template
you go to your fixture change it to one
one and then whenever you execute
appropriate command uh this fixture will
be loaded once more
and the command to load fixtures
is or migration data load. Uh this
command doesn't have any safe switch. So
it will be executed instantly whenever
you put it. But it also has this uh
dry run switch
run. Okay. So you can check what
fixtures will be executed if you execute
the command. none on my side because
everything is actually already executed
here.
Um and about demo data fixture idea is
exactly the same just the placing is
different and you need to execute the
command with this fixtures type demo
switch. Okay. So this will this command
will load your normal data fixtures and
if you want to load the demo data then
you need to specify this fixture type
demo switch and your uh demo data
fixtures uh needs to be inside
migrations data demo or okay so here we
had migrations data or and here we have
migrations data demo or and file name is
up to you
uh the the content of the data fixture
is exactly the same. It needs to extend
abstract fixture from doctrine and it
can have implement all those interfaces
too. Yeah.
Um I'm not sure
why this demo uh name space was added
uh why why it it exists
because you need to have two different
sets of fixtures. First are the normal
ones like when you want to install like
clear aura application you still need to
have product units some default
configuration options etc. But demo data
are those like additional data like here
on the training repository you installed
it with demo data and you have already
some customer users there some products
uh and that kind of data that in real
life when you start a project for your
client you will not want to have them.
Yeah. So um demo is installed only when
we
um
when we install with the demo data and
it's not executed otherwise
uh or if you manually load migrations
with this command and also add this
switch
so it will also load you so you can
install application without demo data
and they say okay I may need demo data
so you exit execute this command with
this switch and then the demo data will
be added to your project.
Yeah. And it will execute
uh migration for all bundles. So all
demo data of each bundle will be loaded.
Correct.
Mhm. Yes. Probably there is a switch to
uh specify
for each of our commands. We also have a
help
switch. So you can specify bundles by
the bundle
uh switch like here. So you can also
load only from some particular bundle.
For demo data from core this might not
be the best idea because as I shown you
they are related to each other. They are
dependent to each other. So in
organization bundle there will be
organization loaded and then in user
bundle there will be users loaded. So
maybe this is not the best idea, but for
your custom bundle,
there is always a way to execute only
demo data from some specific bundle
by default all bundles.
Okay.
uh documentation for the future
reference uh to actually everything that
we talked about during this topic.
um and a little bit of best practices.
Uh so basically when you create a custom
entity and we'll do it dur during the
practice just create the the fields
normally right because you have access
to src you create the entity class so
basically all all those fields should be
just standard doctrine fields only if
you want to create a field on existing
entity in core then you cannot do it
this way. So only then use uh please use
the extended uh entities functionality.
Uh if you not need birectional relations
also you can do it with extended
relations. So you remember that we have
actually always two methods. Uh one is
to add relation and then to add inverse
relation. So remember that if you want
both ways then you need to actually
execute two methods.
Uh this is some general uh best practice
maybe not for this topic actually but in
general uh for working with entities
uh working with entities can be because
we're using doctrine uh we're using
object hydration
uh there. So this can sometimes be slow.
Uh so for example for some imports when
there is a lot of data we sometimes
switch and use plain SQL there but I'm
not sure if you'll encounter this
situation anytime soon. So that's just
some general idea.
Uh so yes we use uh doctrine object
hydration. So the first step will be to
switch uh to array hydration
uh and then not even use this but use
plain SQL if you still have performance
issues.
Uh and uh just as a reminder that if
you'd like to modify some doctrine
annotations, some doctrine metadata
uh and by doctrine annotations I'm
talking about all those elements
uh here. So those are doctrine
annotations entity table and those
columns
this if you'd like to change anything
from this inside existing object because
you cannot go to vendor files and edit
for example this file. So if you want to
uh change it you need to do it with a
listener and uh where's my last slide?
There is this load class metadata event
that will give you all the metadata for
this class. All doctrine metadata for
this class. So you'll be basically able
to change anything.
Okay. Do you have any questions?
Okay. Now I have actually a question for
you. Uh so for today uh we have the
first part will be the practice for this
topic that I just finished. Uh and it
will take like about two and a half up
to three hours and then we have one
theory topic about data grid index page
and many to do. Uh but basically we can
go one way or the other. So we can start
from practice and then at the very end
of today's training do the uh do the
theory or we can switch it if you prefer
and I can do the theory now and then
we'll just do the practice till the end
of the meeting. Uh why I'm asking
because that's actually totally up to
you. For me, both ways are fine. And I
also know that some of you uh from
Falcrum, you decided to do the practice
sessions on your site outside of the
training. So you can just then
go after I finish the theory session.
So guys, I need your decision. For me,
it's both ways. It's fine.
So I think hey so I think if you can
finish the theory session that would be
great because I want to join one other
other meeting uh in uh one and one one
and a half an hour. So that would be
great if if everybody is fine then only.
Mhm. Okay. So we have two
Okay. So we have three votes for yes.
Okay. Democracy.
So let's do the theory.
Um
okay.
So the theory topic will be kind of
continue this uh all this
uh so whenever we have our entity
uh then we want to display it somewhere
and the first part will be actually our
index page. Uh so on the index page we
always have a list in back office
actually we always have a list of our
entities. So for this we will need to
have few elements. Uh first we need to
create this index page and for this we
need a template we need controller and
action in this controller.
um
on this index page we need some
representation of the list and for this
this for us this will be data grid and
then to be able to access this index
page we need a menu element so we'll be
able just to click somewhere and not
type the URL
uh so that's basically the whole idea of
this uh topic
so we're going to start from the data
grids
uh yeah so we already know that For us
the data grid it's our representation of
a list of uh entities. So basically in
general data grid what's is implemented
the way that this can be uh a
representation of any data from any data
data source. So we have some default
data sources. This can be all RAM which
means database. So we're fetching
entities to our data grid from the
database. Uh then we have also search.
So we'll be fetching um entity store
data grid from the search index and this
is exactly what's h what is happening on
the storefront the PLP so product list
page category pages search results
everything this doesn't look like a data
grid that I will show you in a moment
but believe me behind this there is a
data grid just very very much customized
one uh but behind this there is a data
grid that has a data source uh taken
from search index and then also you can
have a type array. So basically you can
pass any array there in displayed.
Um so this data grid uh has
implementation in our or our data grid
bundle. Um so to be able to display it
you just need to pass the configuration.
So this data grid needs to know how to
for example for the ORAM source and for
the uh search needs to know how to build
the query to fetch the data to the data
grid. So we will have the query section
and also we will have sections uh for
example for the columns we need to
specify what columns will be in the data
grid what filters will be in the data
grid what sortters if you want to enable
disable pagionation and so on. And then
also on the data grid we have single
actions and mass actions. So let me show
you this contact grid.
So this is basically our data grid. This
is how it looks by default. Uh we have
columns. Uh we have filters here.
Based on the filter type it will be um
different here when I click on it. So
this is a string. Uh so we have this way
of rendering it. But for tax we have
different for created at this state
time. So we have just different um box
rendered based on the filter type. Uh
then we have also sortters and sorters
are here by clicking the
heater.
Obviously we have columns as you can see
we have pager here at the top. Uh we
have pages
records per page. We can hide show
filters. This is to refresh the grid but
according to current uh filtered
elements. So let's say
I will filter it and here I will just
refresh it. But with those filters if
you want to reset it to default state
then there is this third button here
says reset to default.
And then for some data grids we have
really plenty of columns here but they
are not all displayed
right now otherwise this will look just
ugly and will be unreadable.
So we also have this configuration
section here where you have two tabs
grid and filters and for the grid you
can turn or on or off some additional
columns. So as you can see we have a lot
of them but not all of them are
displayed but I can start displaying
some column. Okay and it appeared here.
Uh same for filters. Usually we have a
lot of filters configured for data grid
but not all of them are rendered
instantly. So we can always come here
and show some filter.
Um okay and actions. Uh so our row
actions are here under those three dot
do dots. So it's usually view, edit and
delete. And also we have mass actions
that they are here on the hither level.
For the contact entity it's merge and
delete. And then you have check boxes
here. So you can check multiple and for
all of them click for example delete.
Uh
and we also have views. So you can
create views. Uh so basically the
default by default we see all the
contacts but we can also switch to some
different uh contacts for for example um
I'm a salesman who only wants to see
misery contacts. Okay. So I'm filtering
it like here. So I don't need to every
day just come here and filter it by
state. I can switch the view by one
click and that's it. And even more if
I'm sure that that's my I even can make
this my default view. So here in the
options you can also set this as
default. Then whenever I enter the
contacts grid I will always see this
particular view.
Okay. I'll switch to all contacts. Uh
yeah, that's basically it.
Okay.
Uh so how to create this grid? We will
have uh few sections. First part will be
or so. So here we will uh or query. So
here we will specify uh what to select
from to our data grid. So we need to
select part from where group by or
whatever. Sometimes it will be just
select and from sometimes you will have
some word statement.
And then we will display columns and for
the column uh you need to specify the
label.
Label will be used for the heater of
this column.
Um and if you the label is enough then
we will just display in the cell the
value for this particular field on your
entity. But you can also specify some
different front end type and instead of
displaying
just row value here you can for example
even display it with some HTML tweak
template. Right? So this can be not just
a value but this can be also displayed
with some custom template I mean the
cell I have example in here. So I will
show you in a moment how to do this. And
then we have a filter section and for
filters we need to specify the type for
the filter and data name. This is uh
the name of the
data that we will filter by.
So for example if we want to I will show
an example in a moment it will become
clearer for sorters uh the same we need
to specify the data that we will sort by
and then uh here we can also specify the
default sort for the data grid. Uh we
have also section for properties. They
can be used for example in actions. Uh
for example to display the view page of
this particular record. We need to pass
the ID of this record right because when
I click and open view page um we need to
know exactly what record to view and we
need its ID and this will need to be
specified inside the properties. And
then we have sections for single actions
and mass actions.
Uh yeah, I will show you now the simple
example of a data grid. Um and similar
very similar to the one that we'll do in
the practice session. So data grid
configuration sits inside data grid yam
file and it's inside resources config or
So because it's inside or
directory you can be sure that this is
automatically loaded
by one of our bundles actually or data
grid bundle. Um so all you need to do is
create this data grid yam file and put
the configuration there.
So let's see the example
inside this file
uh under the data grids name space then
we can specify the list of data grids.
So first line this is my data grid
identifier the name of my data grid this
needs to be unique.
Um and as you can see we have some
naming conventions to make sure that
this is unique. Uh so for example I'm
sure that this will be just list of
payment terms.
Let's see payment terms.
Okay. So as you can see this data grid
is indeed very
small. So we basically have a data grid
with one column, one sortter, one filter
and uh actions viewed and delete.
So to do this simple data grid we need
to specify the name of the data grid.
Then we didn't talk about ACL yet. We'll
have separate ACL topic. But for now
just for you to know that you can
protect uh this data grid with some ACL.
And if I don't have this particular
permission I will not see this data
grid. And then the very important part
is extended entity name. So uh we are
saying that this grid this will be a
list of
those entities.
Okay. And because of this later when you
extend the payment term entity and add
some fields on it this data grid will
out of the box have this additional
field for you too. So as you remember
from yesterday when I shown you the
migrations and the extended entities
functionality if you just create a
migration and add field specify is
extend true and owner custom a lot of
elements will be automatically generated
for you. One of them was that this field
will be visible as a column on a data
grid and for this you need to specify
this extended entity name. Right now
this data grid is ready to display some
dynamic fields for you.
Uh we can use ORM hints, query hints, we
can use entity pageionation. The
important part source the most important
part.
Um so basically type is or this can be
search this can be array and then we
have query section when we specify what
fields we want to select and from where
okay and from we define exactly this
way. So under the table you actually put
the fully qualified class name of our
entity and then you want to fetch it
with some alias. This alias now is used
in my select statement to fetch
appropriate fields from this entity.
Then in the columns section we have only
one column and this looks weird because
we have label label but this is
basically the name of the column. So if
this would be title or name or
something. So this will be it and this
goes directly to this
part from select. Then uh the label
variable inside the column this is
actually the column title.
So this here
um okay
about properties in a second. Then we
have sortters and we have we are
sorttering only sorting sorting only by
the label uh column
and uh source for the sorter it's this
part of the select. Okay. So this needs
to be the same. By default we're sorting
ascending by a label. For the filters
same additional uh we need to pass the
type of filter. So basically label is a
string. So the filter it will be also
rendered as a string filter.
Uh and then we have actions. As you can
see we have delete button on the data
grid here.
Uh but we don't have this action
specified
here in this file because this action
it's a global action and and I will show
you the details during the next topic.
Next topic will be about the whole crat.
So we're going to talk about remove
elements. So delete action there. And I
will show you how this is generated.
For now just remember that this is
defined as a global action and it will
appear in some places.
Um so we want to specify the view action
and update action.
Um so type for view is navigate. Then it
has some label. It has some icon. As you
can see, we have the I icon here. When I
hover on it, it has some label.
Um, also you can protect actions with
ACL.
So you can show the whole data grid. But
for example, disable and hide some
actions only. Right? So I can go to view
but I cannot go to update for example.
uh then whenever you click anywhere on
this grid I don't need to go here and
click the view action I can assign this
action to be a row action so wherever I
click on this row this will do some
action and if you want to mark a view
action to be this row action
this is how we do it so just row action
true
uh and the most actually important part
is the view link. So to be able to tell
data grid where to go, we need to
generate the view link which consists of
the route so the URL but also of the ID
parameter. So now we need to go back to
our property section. So we need to
first of all pass the ID as a property
for and now this uh ID is available. If
you just put tilda, this will
automatically try to match search for
this in your select. So it will go to
this part and then our view link
property it's URL where we pass a route.
So this is a route to the view page of a
per payment term. And this route needs
to uh we need to pass ID to this route,
right? because this
when I click the URL this is the route
for my payment term view but here also
we have additional parameter based on
the payment term that I want to view.
So here is how you generate this URL
based on some route and we're passing
the ID parameter that is defined at the
top and now this link can be used here
in the view action.
uh and basically similar thing for the
update. Okay, so we're just basically
generating it based on different route
both for view and for update we need to
pass the id and here as you can see this
is the representation this looks exactly
the same like this. So this is an array
and this is an array. This is YAML file.
So we can specify arrays in both ways.
Okay.
Uh then here at this uh source part
um you can use just simple selects but
you can also use complicated selects. So
in case you need this is one of the most
complicated selects that I found uh in
core we don't put really complicated
cases here. uh but yeah you can use case
when for example right so this is not um
restricted only to the simple part you
can also do some um more complicated SQL
statements here
and how to do this uh tweak type column
examples. So by default if you specify
okay let me open this again. By default
if you specify just that you want to
display a label column you just need to
specify the heer title for the heer and
that's it. But uh in this case the value
will be the row value will be displayed
here. Okay. So we just have this row
value. In case you want it to be
displayed some in some specific ways.
For example, you want to add div or span
and then class and style it or make
element bold or anything.
Um, you can say that this particular
cell will be displayed with HTML tweak
template and doing it is really really
simple.
I didn't open that yet.
So as you can see we have multiple
columns in this particular data grid and
the column user it's actually it's going
to have some header but then we're
actually going to display it with HTML
tweak. So we need to specify type tweak
front end type HTML and then you can
pass the template.
Okay. So this is the path to templates
this add notation that comes from uh
symfony
uh
and then inside
this template you have always two
variables. First of all, you have a
value of this particular cell. But also
to those templates,
uh we also always pass the whole row.
So,
where is my IDE?
Actually, not good example.
Let me just search for something.
Okay. But this is
I want to find example with both
elements.
Oh my god. Only so complicated ones.
Seriously,
[Music]
I'll get there. I promise. Just give me
a second.
Well, I will just show you
two examples or I will show you solution
from our practice.
Okay.
I will show you solutions from our
practice.
Oh no, I have it. Okay. Uh so for those
uh HTML tweak templates, our data grid
engine will always pass you two
elements. First will be access to
basically the cell value that will be
displayed here, but you will also have
access to the whole row. Okay. So in
this case and that's maybe not the best
situation but in this case if I'd like
to display this particular cell with
HTML tweak template uh inside HTML tweak
template I'd have two variables one will
be the cell value so basically this
email and second will be record so this
whole row okay uh so if you want to
display uh the cell value you have it
under the value uh parameter variable
and then you have also record variable
which is the whole row. So you can say
get value and specify the any column
name that is in this row and this will
return you this other column name here
too. Okay, so you have always two
elements cell value and the whole row.
Okay, I should probably add this example
to the slide.
Uh, and how to customize data grid. Um,
so data grid yam file, it's going to be
merged based on the bundle loading
order. Okay. So if you just want to
override some existing grid, you need to
create data grid yam file in your
bundle.
uh find out the original grid name, put
it there and apply modifications. At the
end, you will have everything from our
original
uh bundle and on top of it your changes
assuming that your bundle it's loaded
after the core bundles. I assume that's
always true.
Uh then also you don't need to copy
paste the whole configuration of the
data grid if you'll have uh two data
grids that are very similar one to the
other because you can create a data grid
and say that it extends some other grid.
Uh then also uh when the grid is built
uh we dispatch grid events. So we can
also create listener and listen to build
before build after or result before
result after. Um so first it's uh those
are events the builder events are when
the data grid is built based on the
configuration in our yam file and then
data source. So basically when the
results are taken for example from the
database. Okay. So you can also do some
modifications with the listeners in case
you need any complicated logic there
that it's impossible to put inside y
file.
Uh and uh just as an information that
some parts of a data grid uh not
everything sits in or data grid bundle.
Some parts are just divided to separate
bundles. For example, pagenation and
those are called grid extensions.
You can check a list of all the
extensions. Basically uh the idea is
that not everything sits in the data
grid bundle because it would be very
very big and we have some
functionalities that can be like
standalone functionalities.
Uh so for example pager it's it's it's
in separate uh bundle
uh okay and example of
data grid listener uh for example this
listener listens to
listens to build before so before the
configuration is being been built that's
why you have a config here and this
config as you can See we can fetch ORM
query add some select add sortters
filters. This is exactly the same that
we have in um data grid y file here.
Okay. So at the end you just get this
configuration in your PHP class and you
can change this configuration not in
YAML but in PHP class in case you prefer
this way or sometimes you want to for
example add a column or do something
based on some business cases. So you
cannot put ifs in the grit file but you
can totally do it in a PHP code. So in
this situation you also can use listener
and our pagionation extension. Basically
the file just specify how to
turn this on or off. Okay. So inside
options we have entity pagenation
and this is probably everywhere. Inside
options we have entity pagenation.
Right. So we just specify how to turn
some functionalities on or off uh for
our data grid.
And one short exercise, I will actually
do it on my site. You can watch and
see that it's really easy to edit some
existing data grid and how to actually
find the data grid name. Uh so we would
like to disable first name filter from
contacts grid. Okay. So because my
bundle is loaded after the core bundles,
all I need to do is create a databm file
in my bundle and override this little
element. So disable filter uh third time
filter. Okay, I don't need to copy paste
the whole grid because that grids file
are merged.
Uh okay. So let's
go to my contacts and not this
environment. This environment
customer contacts
refresh it
better. Okay. So here is my first name
filter and I would like just to remove
it from here
from the datagram file. You cannot
totally remove it. it will just not be
displayed here but it will be always
available here. If I switch I can show
it again. Okay, this is what we will do.
Um
yeah so first how to find out the name
of this data grid.
I always do it from here. So whenever I
clicked anywhere on this data grid, I
just scroll a little bit up.
Oh my gosh, I will disable this tweak
inspector. Sorry guys, but I just see
too many elements here and a lot of
those greens are not really helpful.
Okay, so we have heather
Um
and at some point we have grid
id grid context grid blah blah blah and
we have data page component name context
grid and this is data grid component.
Okay. So this component always has the
data grid name and this is the one. So
this is my contacts grid
and this is the one that I'd like to
overwrite and I'd like to disable uh
first name filter. So let's see the
original definition first.
Okay.
Uh here all the definitions are finished
with a colon. So you can basically
search for the name of the grid and
colon and then we're here. So this is
the definition of my context grid and I
will just override the part of it. I
will override the filter section.
Filter
first name, right? First name or last
name? What was it? First name. Cool.
Okay. So the column filter column name
is first name. and I just want to
disable it. So right now what I would do
I will go to my bundle in resources
config oro I need to create the data
grid yam file. I already have it but
normally you will just create this file.
Then under the data grid name space I
need to specify what data grid I want to
modify or create. So I want to modify
this and I want to modify section filter
section. Those autocomplete hints are
coming from oral plug-in to PHP storm.
Uh then
columns then my
column name. So I have no hints here
because the column name is custom. And
this is the first name.
And uh here one and only super error
that we have in our plug-in. If you do
enabled false, this will not work. You
need to do disable true. And this is uh
stated in documentation that it's
disabled true. Our plug-in is just being
updated. So I hope soon we will fix
those small um elements. But to be
honest for the data grown file that's
the only error that I found. So
true
and I don't need to clear cache
and this filter is not here. Okay. So we
have last name previously we had here
the first name. Okay. So really changing
modifying something simple in already
existing grid it's as simple as adding
this few configuration values here.
So this can be really really quick.
Uh okay do you have any questions to
this data grid part?
So let's do the break. Uh let's say 15
18 minutes 20 past my three whatever it
will be on your side.
[Music]
Okay guys, welcome after the break and
please let me know if you are here.
Okay.
So almost all of you said yes. So let's
start. Uh two last elements to this
topic. Uh first will be basically the
index page which is the template is
really really simple if you use our base
templates.
Uh so first to display the index page we
already talked about data grid. So we
have something to display there. Sorry
guys. Okay. Uh we have something to
display there. Uh and we need to create
now a controller with action and specify
this route. Route will be without
parameters because index page it's
basically for us. Uh this is usually a
slash. So we're going to have some
prefix defining in the routing y file.
But then this is basically just a route
without any parameters.
Uh we usually have this data grid there
and uh also some additional actions for
example import export buttons
uh create button or something like that.
And here we will also need to create the
index template. So first will be our
controller.
Okay. Uh and uh here to create
controller we basically always put it
inside the controller directory just to
have some order in the bundle not have
it everything inside. So we you'll see
that in or all our core bundles we have
this controller directory and put we put
all the controllers there. Uh then uh
this going to be a controller for the
payment term entity.
Uh so payment ter controller it needs to
extend the actually it doesn't need to
but if you'd like to use uh some methods
from abstract controller from symphon
framework bundle then you will need to
for example to display uh to create a
form there are many nice actions in this
controller. So for the simple controller
that just has this index action, we
don't need to even extend it. But later
on at some point you will figure out
that you actually want this.
Uh then
the syntax action is very simple because
all that we need to pass to our template
is the entity class uh parameter and
this is basically the class of our
entity that we will uh want to display.
uh we define uh routes as annotations.
So we have this at route annotation that
it's included here
and in here you just specify the the URL
so only slash and every route needs to
have a name uh name needs to be unique
and we have this convention that it's
like we are in oro payment term bundle
and we're displaying payment term index
so it's going to be oruro payment term
index then for the view route we will
have oro payment term view. So basically
the route name also tell tells us
something and this is up to you but we
do have this naming convention. So you
can also follow this
uh about ICL. We'll talk in next topics.
Uh
okay. So this is controller.
This is how we specify the route. Uh we
still need the routing y file.
Uh so let me show you. This is
exactly same as for symfony. We just put
it in different place inside resources
config orura. Here is the routing y file
and you'll see plenty of examples in a
lot of our bundles. And uh basically the
definition here is always like this. So
we have some item it needs to have some
identifier. Then under resource we put a
path with exactly this uh format to our
controller class. And then we define
routes with the annotation
with
with those annotations.
So in our routing we specify type
annotation and if you want uh this whole
controller actions to be to have some
prefix uh you can also specify it here.
So it will be payment term. This will be
for the index. Then for the view will be
payment term and
view and ID. Right? For the create
action this will be payment slash term
slashcreate and so on. So if you want to
have some prefix before those
definitions here uh you can define it in
here. Okay. So basically annotation
prefix if you want it and uh path to our
controller file. That's it.
And now in our controller
uh we need to specify also the template.
We also need do it with annotations.
uh and you can specify the path to HTML
tweak template but if you don't
Symphfony will do it by some pattern and
actually where it will look inside our
bundle inside resources
views
okay and relative to this it will try to
find the directory that uh is built from
the controller name without the
controller postfix so it will be payment
term directory library and then it will
search for
index html tweak file. So the file will
be like the action name without action
postfix. So it will search it will load
by default if you just specify this uh
resources views payment term
index html tweak this one this file.
Okay.
uh you can specify it uh but if you just
leave it empty it will automatically
load this one.
Uh and this is the last element uh that
we need to create this index template
and
this index template can be really really
short. Our one will be even shorter. Uh
so first of all uh I strongly advise to
extend our default index html tweak
because it has everything inside uh
inside. So it will render some custom
actions if you define them. Um it will
render data grid. You only need to pass
the grid name. So this base uh parent
class will take care of like everything.
So our index html normally will just
extend from parent and we need to set
pass the grid name under this parameter
and that's basically all that you really
need.
Then you can add some par additional
elements like page title or inside
navigation uh blog buttons you can add
create button. Okay. In some uh usually
we do have create button. Sometimes we
don't. For our custom entity, we will
actually not create create button. So
we'll just have extend and set grid
name. And that will be really enough. Uh
and parent template will take care of
displaying this data grid
and any buttons if we specify. So index
pages are really usually very very very
short.
Okay,
so we have data grid, we have index page
controller, everything. But right now to
enter our index page, we need to type
the URL in the browser, which is really
not funny
because we don't remember the URLs and
it's the UI is bad. We need a menu
element. So we want to put the link to
our index page somewhere. For example,
here, right? Like we have the link to
users view page or here we have to
contacts uh sorry contact list page
index page uh and for this we'll use uh
our menu uh we use canopy menu bundle
and on top of it we have our aura
navigation bundle and basically menu is
a tree structure right so we going to
have a tree of some elements each
element can have children they can be
ordered
uh and each element has a label
also sometimes is has a route. Why
sometimes? Because for example, the
system element doesn't have a route.
It's just opening like another level. Uh
but this one has a route because it
leads to user um index page
uh position. So when we have more than
one elements like here, we can order
them in appropriate way. uh specifying
position
uh and this uh menu can be defined
inside navigation y file.
Um so normally we specify those elements
in here. This navigation y file is then
uh taken loaded by our navigation bundle
and uh menu is rendered.
uh how to create this navigation YAML
file.
Here is example of some parts from user
bundle. Okay. So in the navigation name
space in the menu config name space we
first specify items and then we're going
to put those items in some particular
place in the tree. Okay. So first we
need a definition of an item. For
example, system tab. It has a label and
this basically goes to this system
element and that's why uh there's no URL
just hash. We can add some uh classes
then style it somehow position 100. So
basically it will be probably at the
very very end and it is at the very very
end of this level. Uh and we can put
some extras for example icon gear icon
and yes we do have a gear icon here.
[Music]
Uh then uh we may have elements that are
actually leading somewhere. So like user
list and here a label. So yes basically
users this is a label uh route because
it will lead somewhere. So this is the
route that we have in our controller.
There was the route annotation and the
name of the route and this is exactly
this. Uh then because we have here a lot
of elements. So this will have position
10, roles will have position 20. So yes,
I have first users and then roles. Okay,
so that's just the order.
And then additionally to that we can
have uh we can specify some description
but what is really nice it's those
routes.
uh so this will act as some kind of a
wild card that will tell us when this
element should be highlighted because
normally it will be highlighted only
when I enter or user index but in this
case when I enter user list okay it's
highlighted
yes it it is just yellow but also when
I'm when I go to the user view page
here it would be also nice to have it
still highlighted ated right? So this is
what you can specify in this additional
routes part that all the elements all
the routes that start from oro user
except ro group because they have their
own separate menu elements.
So you can specify uh some wild card
here
and basically that's it. If you if I
scroll to the bottom, you'll see that we
have only all those elements because
this is basically what you can specify.
Um label route position icon and that's
it.
And then this is definition of element.
It will not be visible anywhere yet.
Okay, this is just the definition in of
the item. And we need to put this item
in some specific place in the tree.
Uh so we have a three section and uh
first is the name of our menu then
children system tab children users
management children and here is my
element. Okay this is the one
this one user list it's here. How to
know which uh menu is this? Uh what is
actually this menu name? We have a list
of all the menus here.
You can check it in code which is where
or you can browse the page uh source to
check which is where basically this main
menu here on the left. This is our
application menu. Okay. So this is the
one you can come here and make sure that
this is it right. So we have dashboards,
customers and so on. This is exactly the
menu that we have here on the left and
under system we have user management and
users. Okay.
Um
uh so basically whenever you want to put
something you need to find this tree and
put it in appropriate place basically
exactly there where you want it to be.
Okay. So our user list as well as user
roles are in the application menu under
system and user management tab. And
that's basically how you specify the
menu element. You just need need to eat
an item and then put it in some
particular place in the tree.
Uh how to customize it. So first of all,
as you already saw, uh we can do it from
the UI like here.
Uh but again, this will be only in your
particular database. Uh so if you decide
to do it manually then you need to
remember to do it manually on every
instance of your project which may not
be so cool but yes you can test here you
can check anything so whenever I'm on
some particular level
I can create new menu item I can hide
this menu item or or I can save changes
if this menu item was created from the
code so from the navigation y file
This part is actually not editable. So
you can even here come and notice that
this element was for sure created by a
code from the navigation y file. If you
create a new item, you can obviously
edit it and put anything you want in
here.
Uh then the second uh
way to customize it it's basically by uh
doing it through the navigation y file
because here you can create new element
but you can also override existing
element uh and basically same as for uh
datagritium file
those files are merged in the bundle
order. Okay. So if you have a bundle
that is loaded after all the core
bundles and you want just to modify
something or add a new element to
existing menu then you do it in
navigation y file and it will be there
and I will basically show you that in a
second because we're going to have a
short uh exercise like for me. So I will
show you how to modify easily this
navigation uh and add some custom
element. Uh then uh if uh for some
reason navigation yam it's not enough uh
and it can be because navigation yam
it's like plain right it's flat file so
you cannot have conditions there you
cannot say okay add this element but
only if so if you need some logic behind
creating elements uh then you can create
it with a listener and you need to
create a listener that will listen to
oral menu configure and then menu name.
So for example for our um test menu this
will be an event
or menu configure application menu and
example of such a listener. Okay. So we
get configure menu event and we can
basically do anything in here. we can
check something some ACL's some
additional data
uh and then
where is my build menu so basically then
we also are adding elements right so the
same as in the navigation yan file we
have a label we can set extra uh so
exactly like here label extras and so on
so you can do exactly the same from the
listener
uh then if you just wants to build uh
the whole menu from scratch
new menu with a builder with a PHP
called notw with navigation y file it's
also possible so for this you will need
to create a service
that is tagged as a menu builder give it
an alias and this will be our uh menu
name like the application menu for
example and then inside this builder you
just do exactly the same so you create
an element set extra set child uh label
route extras at position. So basically
exactly the same what we have in
navigation yam file but from the PHP
code
it's also an option
um
page titles. So in our navigation yam
file there is a second section on the
same level as uh many config
and it is called titles
and here we specify title uh for each
page by specifying the route. Okay, so
we have a route name and then um title.
This goes to the title here on the
browser tab at the very top. Okay. So
this is this title.
Uh for the index we do not specify
anything because by default it will take
the plural label of our entity. Okay. So
for user index of the users this will be
users.
Um okay.
And one last elements are some
uh menu extensions.
So we have uh some of them and this
particular one one it's uh called
routing aware extension
and we do have some extensions to for
the menu and they are doing different
things. This particular one particular
one it's actually checking
uh if I have access to the route that is
specified for this item. So imagine the
situation that we have actually you
don't need to imagine it because it's
implemented. We have this user list
element and it leads to this route.
Okay. And this route basically this
leads to some controller and some action
and this controller
um
is protected with some ACL.
Uh so this extension will check if I
have access to this controller and this
action that this route leads to and if
not it will hide this item from me.
Okay. So you can
basically if I don't have access to this
to this controller I will not see the
item in the menu and that's that's
basically all what this extension is
doing.
Okay. And short menu exercise uh to show
you that we can really really fast uh
create some additional menu element and
you'll actually do this on the practice
exactly the same that I will do now just
uh it will lead to different route.
Uh so
we want to add a new item
with label my custom contacts
uh position just before contacts and it
should should lead to or contact index.
Okay. So let's start from creating
navigation yam file in my project in my
bundle. I actually have this file
already but
this is just creating a file.
Let me close everything.
Okay, here under the navigation menu
item items I need to create my item.
Okay, so I will create my item and
this is identifier I will just call it
my custom contacts.
Okay, now I need to specify the label.
Normally I will do it with translation
so it will be really nice. But just for
the sake of this example, I want it to
be faster. So I will just type it here.
Okay.
And then route. So my element will lead
to some particular page. And we're
supposed to it's supposed to lead to the
contact index page.
Okay. So route is this one. And then it
needs to be placed uh right just before
the contact. So I will also need to
specify the position element. But I
don't know
what position it should be because I
don't know what position the contacts
element has. So right now I need to find
out the definition in the navigation
YAML file in the core bundle for this
contacts element. How to do it? I know
that this will be defined in navigation
y file and I know that
it will have a route
that leads to oral contact index. Okay.
So what I'm going to do I'm going to
find control shift f on my site this oro
contact index inside
yam file but navigation y file
okay and I have
few elements this is contact bundle and
this is contact bundle so I have two
elements one is some shortcut list
contacts doesn't seem very correct one
and this is contact list this is the
element that I'm looking for. Okay, so
this is my original element
and I need to put mine
I'm forgetful
just before. Okay, so this one has
position 10. So on my side I'll say
position eight. It will be before
eight. Okay, so I have my element but I
still need to put it somewhere in the
tree because now I just created defined
the element but it's not displayed
anywhere. So where to put it in the
tree? Uh instead of trying to figure out
what are the names for those elements, I
will go the easy way because it's
supposed to be next to the
contact element. So I already opened
navigation yam file that creates this
element. So let's check where is it in
the tree. Okay, I can just pick in here
for this element
and it's in the application menu then
customers tab.
Yeah. And basically here okay so I need
to put it exactly in this place.
So I'm going to copy it. I actually have
application menu in my
file. So I need to go relative to
application menu. So three application
menu children
customers tab children and my element
and my element is my custom contacts.
Okay. And let's check
Okay,
I have this elements and it's leading to
contact. We have some uh now conflict
between two elements. So as you can see
only first one it's highlighted. The
second is not because they both lead to
the same place. So only first one was
highlighted
but it's here. It's right above the
contacts in in this particular place of
the tree. It has this label. It leads to
uh oral contact index. So basically
that's it right? If you're going to
create any element again also creates
only navigation y file
define item
put it in appropriate place in a tree.
You can always pick for some other
element where is it not to try and
figure out what is the name of this tab
and it will be there
documentation for everything that we
talked about. So
those links are for the documentation
about the theory and here you have the
YAML reference because we have this data
grid YAML file. So you here have a link
to the reference of every single element
that you can specify in the sum file and
the same the last link the
reference to every element that you can
put in navigation y file. Okay.
Uh yeah best practice. So basically if
you just need to add some simple thing
to existing data grid create data grid
yam file in your bundle make sure your
bundle is loaded after the core bundle
and do modifications there because all
the data gritium files are merged.
Okay.
Do you have any questions?
Uh can you uh can you explain what what
um extend
grids
means
or extending data grids?
Okay. So basically instead of um
do we have example
integrity file
um you're talking about this parameter
right am I correct or in general what
means
correct correct no correct correct
so uh this is a data grid that is based
on some other so basically you don't
need to copy this whole configuration
from here because as you can see it's
long right this one but you just can
create second grid say that it extends
this one and only you want to do some
modifications like add another two
columns okay so this data grid as a
result will have all those columns
actions properties from this one plus on
top of it all those changes so it's like
class inheritance in PHP.
So the question uh it creates a new grid
or it
yes it creates a new grid
and this grid this is identifier of the
grid and this grid is separate to this
grid and separate to base one. So we
have some one base grid and you can use
it anywhere you want and then we have
two other grids in this particular
situation that are totally separate
grids. They are based on this one but
they have some modifications so they
look differently. And this is this grid
identifier. By this identifier you can
display it somewhere.
All right. Thank you.
[Music]
Maybe you can uh explain what should we
do exactly for practice.
Yeah. Yeah, I will do that in a second.
Just waiting. Maybe you have some other
questions to the theory part.
Okay. If not, let's switch for the
practice. But actually we're going to do
the practice for the previous topic uh
which was entities and migrations.
Uh and here I have few elements for you
to do and please do them step by step.
Okay. So don't do installer and
migration at the same uh time. Do this
point by point because this is how you
will exercise uh adding a migration in
real life. Although in real life this
will be probably after a month not after
five minutes but
uh so first we're going to create
usernaming type entity and in general
we're going to use this usernaming type
uh to be able to specify it for the user
entity. So at the very end uh you will
be able to go to user page user view
page
and have this usernaming type here and
you'll be able to select it for user.
Okay. So first for this we need to
create this custom entity.
Um
so in our bundle in our training bundle
we always put entities inside the entity
subdirectory. So you can do the same
create entity that will be configurable
and extendable
uh and it will be called usernaming type
and it will have only three fields ID
which will be primary key auto
incremented title string maxlength 64
and format max length 255
and I've given you here a link to really
simple entity that will be exactly
almost exactly the same as our one. So
if you want to make entity configurable,
all you need to do is uh add this config
annotation at the top. It has something
inside. But for us, this will be empty.
So bracket bracket and that's it. This
means that entity is configurable. Uh
then uh to make entity extendable, it
needs to implement extend entity
interface and use the trait.
And then that's it for the creating of
entity. And we need to add those fields.
So you have very good example here
because ID and all the doctrine
annotations. This is exactly what you
need that it's ID column type integer
and automatically generated value
because this is going to be our primary
key.
Uh then we have a label.
So for us it will be title field and
format field both string types. So you
can
check here. So for us it will be title
type string uh just different length and
second field like this one.
Uh then on entity level here also we
need to specify that this is entity for
doctrine and it's going to be in some
kind of a table. So for payment term we
created or a payment term table. We're
going to have usernaming type. So let's
say training usernaming type table or
whatever you prefer. Just remember that
this will be the table name that will be
created in database. Okay. And for uh ID
we have a getter. For the string values
we have getter and setter. Here only one
field for us it will be both for title
and for format. Okay. So this is you can
basically follow this example.
Then uh when this entity is ready uh you
have it as a class and right now you
want to create a table for it. So for
this you need to add installer. You can
pick for in the theory slides exactly
where it needs to be or you can just use
this simple example that I've also
linked here for you. So installer needs
to be in your bundle under the
migrations schema.
Uh and also please follow the naming
type uh conventions so you will not get
any errors. And inside this installer
needs to implement installation.
I will probably switch to the slides for
a moment because that's the only thing
it needs to do.
Where is my installer? It needs to
implement the installation
and that's it. Right? So this is a bit
more complicated. The only thing you
need to implement is the installation
coming from oruro migration and then you
will be forced to
specify get migration version. For us it
will be one_0 because for now we don't
have any migration yet. And then you
will need to specify the app
uh method where you have schema object
and all you will need to do is create a
table and add those fields there. So
here you have example how to create a
table on the schema object create table
name you need to take from the entity.
So this needs to be exactly this value
and then at column you have exact
example for the ID it's in integer auto
increment and its primary key and then
for title and format you'll do uh pretty
much the same as here just you need to
find somewhere here example how to pass
uh string
that is
[Music]
that has max value
like actually it doesn't have here so
you can check in any files of the
vendors uh how to specify max length
here
um yeah and that would be all after you
create this installer
um
please execute this command
or migration load
But also please first try uh execute it
with the dry run switch. Okay. So you
will be sure that your installer is
there and is recognized as a installer.
Then when you execute this method it
will take some time not long but some
time you should see this table in your
database with all the columns etc. So
this will be the end of this installer.
uh and then I would like you to imagine
that uh between this point and the next
point sometimes happened that's why
we're doing this with the migration and
now we want to add a relation between
this is core entity and this is our
custom that we just created so for this
uh I would like you to do it in the
migration so create directory
uh with migration number one
in case
you don't know how So here you have the
directory where to put it. File name is
up to you. It needs to implement
migration. That's it. And inside I'd
like you to add relation
uh many to one relation from user to
usernaming type. So user is the owning
side of this. Okay. and you have a link
exactly to the
how to do it. So you need to inject
extend extension in your migration
and use the add many to one relation on
top of the schema object owning site on
our site. It's also our user. So
basically yeah and then the name of the
relation
up to you. uh the inverse site table. So
this will be our entity table usernaming
type
and just not forget about adding owner
custom. Okay. So basically
example
uh oh and this particular element it's
really also very important uh because
this is how this entity will be
displayed in the UI. So now I come here
and it's displayed by some parameter. So
preferably do not use ID there just
title otherwise we will have integers
here which doesn't make sense really. Uh
so just it will be displayed preferably
with a title. So here uh this means what
to display in the UI ID doesn't make
sense. Let's do it with a title.
Uh and after you do this remember to
update your installer with this method.
and set installer version to one_1.
Again, execute the command
and you should see this relation. You
should see uh this element on the user
view. You should see this on the user
grid
and you should be able to see it also on
the user edit page in the additional
section at the bottom. You will have
this
and yours will be empty because your
data base is still empty but you at
least should have it here uh as a empty
drop list. Okay. And this is the
this part and this is basically just
creating a data fixture to fill our
database with those values. After you do
this data fixture, you have here very
good example how to do it, where to put
the file.
Just do this and you should see it in a
database and also you should then have
here the list of those three elements.
Okay, so we're just filling data base
with some data with this ORM data
fixture and that's basically it. Uh this
is just playing around with PHP and I'm
sure you know PHP very very good. So for
me it's just yeah in case you have too
much time.
Uh but that's just playing around with
PHP. Nothing really fancy.
Okay. So let's start from creating
entity and then adding installer to add
this uh the table to the database and
then please check if everything will be
okay with with it only then please
proceed to this point with creating
migration okay
and I'm here all the time you can take
breaks whenever you like from now on and
please ask questions if you have any
issues
Uh, and if I will stand up and go to
grab a tea, I will just let you know
that I'll be gone for five minutes or
something. So, for now, I'm here. And
yep.
Uh guys uh by the way uh before you
execute migration if you still didn't do
this uh maybe it will be good to create
a database dump because
later on when you just destroy by
mistake something it will be faster to
load the DB dump than to try to fix it.
So just a hint maybe it should be good
to do some database dump before you do
the migrations.
and I'm going to grab coffee. So, I'll
be back in five or 10 minutes. I'll let
you know when I'll be back.
Yes.
I've uh created fixture but when I
execute comment to lot fixture
nothing happens and I don't know
uh you're talking about migrations or
data fixtures
data fixure migration
was successfully applied
uh I see that new table in the database
but when I execute
Um fix
migration data w
uh okay so first make sure that you
don't have any typo in this particular
directory
and if not you can share screen so So I
can check because either the file is not
in this place.
Yeah. Let me share the screen.
Uh, do you see it?
It's loading. Yes, I see your screen.
Uh, okay. So,
this is my P customer.
This is database.
You see it's empty. This user name and
type.
Uh, this is my migration schema data.
What name types here?
Everything looks good.
I don't know why it's highlighted but
looks like uh
HP bugged because
yeah maybe sometimes
when I execute
run
it shows nothing and without Jun
our migration data load. Okay. And can
you
yeah can you check the database
uh search for the table migration data
start typing migration and open or
migrations data
and sort by ID descending it will be
faster
one. Okay.
So, it was not loaded
and um do I need to we need any other no
you don't need to do actually anything
you need to put it in appropriate
directory and just doubleeing migration
schema data.
RAM.
No, here everything it's okay. You're
extending.
Okay, first thing you can
clear cash
and recheck, but you shouldn't need to
do this.
Um
um
also I work in dev mode.
Yeah. So you shouldn't need to do it but
cash and asterisk. Yep. Let's just
double check
[Music]
there's anything there.
I'm just double checking all the
comments, but I see that you have it
correctly.
So,
then nothing.
Okay, I see it's it's in migration
schema, not in migrations data. The
directory structure is incorrect. Can
you go back to PHP storm?
We have it in migration schema data and
those are two separate sections.
Migration schema is for changes in
structure and migrations data are now
it's
okay. Okay.
I haven't seen it the first time either,
you know.
Yes. Okay. store was correct.
Yeah. So there was this highlight for a
reason. Okay. Migrations data RM. Now
it's okay. You can try now.
Okay. Okay. Thank you.
I see now.
Yeah. And now it's okay. So just remove
dry run execute and it should be there.
Yeah,
looks good.
Thank you.
You can check now in the user edit page
if you have the select in the additional
section at the bottom. So you can just
play around with it, check if it's
there.
I just add
missing translation but translation file
it's you
Yeah. Uh, also
uh I see I see. So I had a question when
I set up this um relation.
I I was not sure what is this label
means. It was in the example you
provided.
Yeah, you can specify.
Yeah, you you know you see but by
default if you don't specify this label
there will be this translation key
created for you. Yes. So it will be this
translation key with dots that we have
later in resources translations y file.
So you don't need to add this label here
because always there will be some
translation
and um
if I want to
remove this uh what should I do?
And now you create uh another migration
that will remove this field.
Uh remove the field and create it once.
Uh no no no no. Uh there is um okay I
will find example and I will send you in
a second because uh there is a way to
modify this uh config part uh for entity
and for this we have specific queries. I
just need to find it. It's something
with
config update entity config
update entity config
Okay,
this one update entity.
Not sure if there will be any examples
for this in core.
So there is a table or entity configure.
Yeah, correct.
Yes. And this is result of all the
configs that basically you created in
every of your bundle. So to modify this
you actually need to do a migration. Uh
just let me share screen because I just
found it. So I will tell you how to do
it
but you need to do migration for it
unfortunately.
Yeah not a problem just more practice as
I say.
Okay so for this we have
we have those queries in our entity
config bundle as you can see here to
update entity config field values or to
update entity config. So uh to update
this part because this is actually
entity
config
field. Yes, because you added new field
to your entity. Okay. So this will be
updating entity config field
value. And if I try to search for
usages.
Okay. So this is the migration that you
will need to do inside your app schema.
and now use the queries object and uh
execute this query where you need to
pass uh the class name. So for you this
will be user the association name I
don't know what was the association name
from your migration probably user naming
or something like this
right then uh appropriate scope code and
value and replace with the value and
this goes to
This goes to in your case.
I will scroll to top to my migrations.
So the scope will be the first label
and
actually you would like to remove it to
be honest
this particular section because it's
better to have it with translation.
Uh okay entity config field.
Okay. Can you put in the chat example
class name so I can
Yeah, this was the example
and the easy example that I
Yeah, I can review it after after the
train.
Yeah. So, this is
move forward with the
example the practice.
This is probably better example uh
because it's easier, right? So, you have
just the scope then code. uh this for
you will be label and value will be
empty or you need to change the value.
Okay. So this is basically this you just
need to
replace class.
Yeah.
Um
okay
here.
Okay.
And by the way uh this is up to update
config field value. But you can see that
we have also here some other queries to
update entity uh config section. Uh so
everything that it's in this this when
you create something like um to enable
that audi etc this
if you want to change this uh those will
be the queries that you will use.
Okay. Uh and about practice do we need
to focus on optional part or we should
go to another practice topic? What what
is it then?
Uh basically we have the time for this
practice till the end. Uh so you can try
to do the optional part or you can just
finish for today. So today the only
thing we still need to do is finish this
practice. So if you're ready with it
then
yeah
yeah I'll try to fix what I did and try
optional. Thank you.
Okay. My screen share was shared as a
one
as uh
I'm not sure if I was sharing the screen
with you.
Okay. So guys, any other questions? Any
anything from
Nick? Victor, what about you?
I was bit interrupted.
Okay, you need to go one after the
other.
Yeah. Yeah. Ju just so I I just bit
interrupted. So I'm still on the
creation of the relation and I have some
connection issue with the posgress SQL.
So I have created the
uh entity and uh currently finishing
this extension interface.
So far it's mostly the same the
uh Vladimmer show but the different with
naming on the bundle that's
so I I think I will fix it after cuz uh
I don't think I will be getting a time.
Yeah, same for me.
Have an hour for this.
Yeah, I'm just getting started
or
Yep.
Okay, guys. So, please continue in case
you have any questions. I'll I'm here.
Uh yeah, I have one more quick question.
You said that uh it always nice to have
translations. Can you explain more
detailed about that? What what is
uh so when you create an entity by
default all its element like all the
fields uh will uh have translation keys
uh created and then uh we have those
translation files under resources
translations here.
Uh so it depends on
uh and
you just need to specify the translation
for this particular key and this key by
default will be used by the application
and here you specify translation why
it's nice to have and use those
translation keys everywhere because as
you can see we can have different for
English we can then create uh I know
French Spanish etc and And then whenever
we change the language uh in our
storefront those translations will be
replaced with those values. Right? So in
code there is always translation key
string used and then we're replacing it
with some real value based on the
language.
So
so if I put it into database then it's
not translated.
No it's not yet. For example, let me
remove this part and I will show you
something.
And now I'll Oh my god, too many open.
Oops. I'll go to my entity management.
It's reloading translation file. So it's
taking time. And let's say naming.
See those are my out of the box by
default created translations. You have
different thing because you specified
the label. Actually not for this you
should also have because this is for
your entity. So there will be some
default translation keys created here
and for each field we also by default
have this this goes from this is the
name space. So for me it's inside
training namespace. Then my bundle is
usernaming bundle. So this is it. This
is the name of our entity. So for me
it's usernaming type. Then this is the
name of my column. And always we have a
label. So by default for all fields and
all entities uh there are those
translation keys uh created and then you
just need to take this and create this
uh messages YAML file here and specify
uh values for all those translation keys
and application here uses those
translation keys and for example now I'm
English in English so it will replace it
with those values but if I switch my
language to Spanish and I create
messages uh as yum and specify some
Spanish versions of those elements. Then
I will have uh Spanish labels here.
Okay. So that's why we use translations
everywhere.
Uh sorry, can you click to edit this the
first format field just is it possible
to set label in admin?
Yeah. Yeah.
Uh yeah, that's I have translation again
back again. I um commented it. Okay.
Uh I mean if you start it in the admin
panel then translations will not work.
Right now we don't have any translation
because I just removed this from here.
If I uncomment it uh then it will mean
that I specified translations for this
field. Okay. So if I now uncomment it,
so I will have translation for the
label.
Yeah. And if you if you do any updates
in the on that page, it will require
that red button. Correct. Update schema.
Uh no. So it goes this way that
translations are first loaded from this
file and those are default translations
and you can also find them for example
here in system translations
here. Let me search for
uh title.
My gosh I want just to copy something.
Okay.
Okay. So we have our translation here.
If you change anything via the UI, this
fact will be saved to the database and
later on if you do any change in YAM
file, it will not be seen because
whatever you clicked in the UI, it's
higher priority.
If you change something,
it will just mean that it's
Okay.
Okay. If you can just uh pick for a
second, I will also paste it. So, just
to be sure that we understood each other
correctly.
Okay, I passed something. So if you like
to change this label that you have,
this is exactly the query that you will
need to implement. So in your migration
just use this query entity with user
field name. This was this relation name
naming type and then scope is entity and
this goes exactly from here. This is the
scope. This is the code
and this will be the
Yeah, but I need
I need to remove it instead of
uh this is uh for you if you'd like to
change it. And if you'd like to remove
it, then uh yes, you will need to use
another. We have remove
um
entity config field query. Okay. So for
remove the query will look
similar what we have here.
Last name, field name and new field
name.
So I will need to find example for that.
Probably filling it with empty value
will do the job.
So yeah I will paste you in a moment the
query for removing but you have already
on the chat uh this query that you
wanted previously to just modify this. I
will just prepare in a second the query
for removing and I will paste also in
the chat. Okay.
Okay.
Okay. So, it turns out that you don't
need to remove it, but you need to fill
it with actual
uh
translational key string. So for example
for all the default uh added fields
this label it's here not like value that
you just specified manually type
something but this is basically this
translation key so you need to do
exactly what I have pasted you but
instead of typing some new label just
type there the translation key that you
would like it to have
and then put it
translations.
Thank you.
Uh yeah,
quick question. How did you get that
field names translation field names?
What what did you use to to get the full
full path? Uh so by default when you
don't specify anything
uh then you can always pick
I am sharing screen in the entity
uh here in the entity management if you
find your entity and our was
naming and you don't have translations
of course so let me.
You enter the entity and now those
translation keys will be here. If you
don't have translations, they will be in
here. So if I remove my translations
now,
just let me remove everything.
Okay. And refresh the page.
Okay.
So you have this here.
This is translation key for format, for
ID, for title. Uh this is for the entity
label and then next to it is also always
entity plural label. Okay. So basically
this and those three here. So you can
see them here.
Oh, okay. So, I
I fixed it. Shall I? Let me share my
screen.
[Music]
So, uh when I tried
um
when I when I tried to set this, it
didn't help because uh Oro tried to use
it as a label and
just uh camel case
used camel case to translate it. Uh so I
have set now
and uh the result label was deleted and
now I see this
uh that's the field name
this
Mhm.
Uh and now I uh looks I just need to
to set it in the translation and it
should work.
Yeah, but you don't have really
translation key here. The one that is
long with some dots, right? Because by
default this field is represented by the
entity label
key.
Uh maybe I did it wrong.
Yeah, this should be this translation.
Okay, I I got what
it was the wrong key.
All right, I need to modify.
Uh yeah,
thank you.
And by the way, if you're sure that your
uh migration can be executed once more
and you're sure that there will be no
issues with it and you're still working
locally, you can always go to oral
migrations table and just remove the
entrance because I saw that you created
one migration after the other and they
are all doing actually the same thing,
right? your migration number three, four
and five are doing the same thing and by
the code I can tell that it's safe to
rerun this migration. So locally you can
kind of work around this and instead of
creating those uh migrations please open
oral migration
table
or migrations
and yeah exactly
uh see so you can just remove record uh
17 16 and 15 and basically it will
execute your translation number three
once more. No, do not
number two. Do not remove number two.
Only three, four, and five. Yeah. So all
those rows and basically you can kind of
cheat the application this way. But
locally because you're sure that your
migration can be run again and it will
not harm your application, you can
basically kind of trick it this way.
Yeah. If you have questions, ask.
[Music]
Okay.
Victor just raised the hand.
Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah.
I have a question there about some It's
unclear for me. Probably it's normal,
but I'm just curious. Probably I did set
up something wrong.
Uh so actually I'm doing this migration
load. It always doing some tight
migrations which actually was done
previous and previous time and I'm
wondering why it happens all the time
but it's like the migrations is not
growing. So when I'm trying to check the
uh migration so it's not like it's the
same place but I'm I'm persistently can
see this going and going again. Mhm.
Yeah. So this is the list of the default
migrations that will happen always after
the those default migrations that sits
in those cataloges like v1 something. So
those are post migrations that are
executed on post app action every time
and those are some migrations from our
core bundles that are adding additional
things. So for example the migration uh
update entity config migration this one
goes to the fact that when you add with
your relation a field and you specify
owner custom in the background
application needs to put some
configuration values here and there to
make sure that you will have
automatically generated it on the grid
or on the view page. So in the
background you just created a field but
in the background there are some actions
that are happening uh connected to this
configurable
um functionality that I've shown you and
extendable functionality. So those are
just basically some additional things
that needs to happen every after every
migration. Okay.
So I'm just curious because I was
working with this on one class and also
I'm not sure should we always put this
force or can we can specify only one
migration which I'm interested just to
speed up the development.
So without force uh the migration will
not happen.
Mhm.
Uh because this is the force switch. uh
you can uh specify yeah some specific
migrations but to be honest it's always
safe if application checks everything
but yeah you can specify bundle for
example
like like this
mhm
okay so technically if I will try
something like this and then the bundle
name I believe I
the bundle name I'm not sure what it
will be if it will be just the bundle
name like training usernaming bundle or
maybe the whole path
You would need to check this.
The bundles
or this bundles can be
basically I'm not sure how to pass this
bundle if it should be the bundle name
or the bundle path. you would need to
check the the implementation of this
command to figure out what it's actually
requesting inside this parameter because
I'm not sure
I'm wondering I'm I'm not getting my my
data uh probably
okay but for loading uh data fixtures
there is separate command it's not
migration load but migration data load
okay
um colon data col3.
Uh
yeah, so it's actually loading it and
you have even some error,
right?
Your entity is not configurable, which
means that in your entity class, you
don't have this at config annotation at
the top,
right? I was it was Yeah, I was not
like this one.
Uh, no, you need to edit your entity
class. Training bundle usernaming entity
usernaming type. It's on red. So, your
entity class, scroll to the top
and above the usernaming type, you need
to also tag it with at config.
Not sure how to do it with the
parameters.
Yeah, I I probably need get this example
which we have for the payment term.
Mhm.
This one.
Yep.
This means that it
I need
you can leave it empty. No, just leave
it empty. Add config and that's it.
Okay. But wait a moment.
You're using examples from our master
which is I believe not released version
six of Oro
and in previous versions we're not
allowing those parameters to be this way
yet. You'll be able to use those from
the next version of Oro. We're still in
the 5.1 which means that you cannot use
this notation. You need to use the
notation that
can you open the link for slides.
Yeah, your slide link is wrong. It goes
to master.
So not this notation exactly.
Yeah, I ran into the same problem but I
realized it was on the wrong branch.
Yeah, I basically saw that and that's
okay for me because already we are
already working with it. But yeah,
version six is coming soon. Probably
this month or next. So, and we're going.
Okay. So, what I I should check there's
uh yes, open the simple example entity.
Yes. On the second slide, this Yeah.
payment term. Scroll to the top.
Remember this one?
This one. Yep. And I think ah I'll put
the link to master which I need.
I can change it to 5.1.
Change to 5.1. Which one? Anyone?
5.1. Just five. 5.1. Not alpha, not
beta. Just 5.1. Start typing. And yeah,
I need to fix the slides.
And uh
so this notation. Okay. So, we still
have something in comments and yeah.
Huh. I'm wondering why.
I'm wondering why it's a problem in
this. it. No, it's just the fact that we
are not supporting this yet in the 5.1
and training is on the 5.1. Uh we
I'm just wondering so
it should be comment right.
Mhm.
It was not using this one as well.
So you need to change everything to this
different notation and I will fix the
slides. I've changed all the links to
but I probably forgot about the links
from the practice slides in the series
slides. You should have it. Okay.
Yeah, it's using different names.
I'm not sure why it's highlighting this
stuff import
because you didn't import it. Yeah, now
it's okay.
And then I need to change this stuff.
Yeah, you need to change all of them. So
could be
It needs to be at RM and you need to
also import it.
You can please track in the example.
You should have it imported but
[Music]
I think that's it. So I can try again.
Uh you still don't you're not using at
everywhere above the in ID.
And I think that the type
um needs to be just string not taken
from types
constant
type string.
[Music]
31.
It's taking something.
Okay, it's no the gather is okay but
maybe it bothers single quote
in the orm definitions the single quote
uh no
it shouldn't be dollar sign name it
should just be this name
uh it means it was get set methods from
the interface I had to implement in
order to get
oh there's a trait you need to add
instead of implementing those yourself
you don't need get set default uh
methods you need to can you scroll to to
top
you need to also use a trait can you go
back to example of this payment term
Uh yeah, you need to use extend entity
trait. It's much longer than just get
and set method. It's like long and just
remove everything else than getter and
setter for particular fields. So just
remove all this and yes get title
and I think that it bothers about the
single quote sign right explicit plain
value got single quote maybe you should
change all this to double quotes the
oram annotations
that
yeah and the format
it looks like this bothers
him.
Okay. So as finally we have entity is
not configurable
at config and it comes from
what is the import entity config bundle
metadata annotation config.
Okay.
Uh, it's okay. Everything is okay.
Maybe.
Can you clear the cache?
I wonder what happened before
when you already had entities, but
it didn't have any annotations there.
Just clear the cache for now and we'll
see.
Ah, okay. I know what happened because
you just basically added this config
section and this is executed when you uh
run migrations but now not when you load
data. Can you execute one more command
to
could I remove the previous migration?
No, no, no, no, no. Just whenever you
modify this at config section, you need
to additionally execute the command uh
update config.
I'm just typing searching for it.
Right. Right.
I don't remember it by heart, believe
me.
Uh so it's anti oral entity config
update.
Yeah, just wait for cache. This is
exactly why I remove cache because I
really don't want wait like waiting
twice. First for clearing cache and then
when I refresh the page for building the
cache. So I always remove.
Yeah, it's pretty slow for me. Sorry for
this doesn't apply that it hits the
requirements but
okay I will paste you the comment
uh in the stack sorry not in stack in
the chat
also I had some other question there
about this relation so first of this all
of this stuff do we need this or not
yes you need this otherwise uh
you will not be able to even create this
relation because you're creating
relation between core entity. So
okay so you tried to load data fixtures
but do you basically did you load it the
migration?
Yeah it was loaded actually without this
stuff.
So I can remove it. I mean I can remove
this stuff from there. It will not help
you because then you will also need to
modify a lot of rows in the entity
config table in the entity config field
tables all those data that are
serialized there. So basically faster
for you will be to load DB dump if you
created one. If not
it's easy for me to re reload uh just
installation doesn't have anything
there. But the question there I can
change the type. I'm just I'm just not
wondering what does it means what this
part
extend
[Music]
owner customer.
Uh okay so let me share screen and I'll
go back to the slides.
Okay.
Uh so this all goes to this part of
uh the extended entities. Okay. So the
idea behind is that you're trying to
create a relation between core entity
and uh between your custom entity. So
you cannot go to the core entity and
edit it there and create a field there
etc. So you cannot do it. So we created
this extended entities functionality
and if entity is extended and it's
extended when it implements this
interface and it uses this trait then
you can create relation between those
two extended entities. And to create
this relation
and this is exactly the example that or
I can open it from this slide
here. It was nicer.
Uh so the only thing you need to do is
basically to create one to many relation
or to create a field on some existing
entity in core uh is to use this method
and this particular section tells you
that uh this will be using the extended
uh entity functionality and owner custom
gives you the poss
whenever you create this relation or
this field uh or in the background will
automatically generate for you this
field on the view page on the create
page. So on all the form types and also
on the greet. Okay. So um you you're not
editing core files because you cannot
edit core files but by specifying this
configuration part to Oro you're telling
Oro okay autogenerate a lot of stuff for
me. So as you can see the only thing
that we did in our practice
uh was to
I have too many open tabs.
We just added this relation to our user.
We didn't modify user entity. We didn't
modify user view. We didn't modify users
greet. Nothing. We just specify hey or
this is extended entity. Please generate
everything for me because this means
owner custom.
And by default if you do this what you
will have for free is uh you will have
this field
on the view page here. And remember we
didn't edit the user view template. We
didn't do it. We only specified here
this owner custom. There is a second
owner and it's called owner system and
it means do not do anything for me.
Okay. So you will not get this on the
grid. You will not get on the view page.
But if you use owner custom then you
will have it here. You will have it on
the edit page in the additional section
and you will also have it on the grid
for free. Here is the column. Okay. So
this means that we are using um this
extended functionality. We are adding
relation between core entity that we are
not able to edit easily but Oro will
just generate a lot of stuff for us.
Oh my god.
And what about the other attribute? I
believe it was entity label.
Uh yeah that's just some additional
attributes that you can pass here. So
you can pass uh many different
attributes like for the entity this will
be a label right. So this will be
instead of translation
um actually Vladimir had this uh issue
because he specified this and this label
is then displayed for example
here when I go to entity management and
I will try to find it those are the
entity labels. Okay. So this those are
entity labels.
So you can specify it also with in here.
You can also specify much more fields
like we had some examples here.
Um I did the label there and it still
has like the translation
label or like it the label when I look
at it in the back office shows like the
translation key. So it seems like that
label isn't ending up there.
Or if maybe I did it wrong.
You need to check
uh it in table probably for starter and
then if it's in uh in table you have the
translation.
Okay. Uh or entity config. Let's check
for
this username type is 240.
Okay. So we have those three elements
here. Oro entity config field
and uh let's take title
or actually I can take oralo entity
config.
Let's check what is here for me.
My gosh.
Okay.
entity.
So I have in entity label I have here
translation. So it will use translation
in theory and this is exactly basically
in theory and also Vladimir actually
checked that because he when he added
this part here
the entity label will be this what you
specify here. So instead of having then
automatically created uh translation
key, he had here uh this manually typed
label.
Okay. And what I'm saying is I did what
you said. I put a label in my relation
like as a part of the configuration and
I still got a translation key here.
So my label still ended up translation.
Check this data. And if you do have
translation here, that means that for
some reason this was not applied
correctly. Okay. And you may now wonder
for what reason and probably it will be
difficult to figure out what happened
because it already happened.
Uh so yeah, you can always use this
query that I pasted on the chat to
update this value value in case you
really need it.
It's probably fine anyway.
It's good to have it with a translation.
Yeah, cuz you can just put a translation
in for it and then it's translatable
instead of hardcode it.
Okay,
I just wanted to call that out since it
I did do that and it still kind of ended
up in the same thing that Vladimir ran
into. So,
so that is weird. Uh, so I would check
it here probably. Here you have the
translation key and something weird
happened.
Yeah, the entity itself and all the
fields also ended up with translation
labels. So,
Yeah, all the fields too because uh you
basically didn't specify
this while creating um this table
because you just created this table
normally
uh by
is that during the installer okay so I
have to specify a label here
yeah here we don't pass any additional
options so basically all the labels
translation keys are generated
automatically bas bas on this uh rules.
So we're going to have training dot
usernaming dot
usernaming type dot then field name dot
label.
Okay. All right. That makes sense.
And it's always the same generated the
same way. So you can figure it out. But
also normally when I create custom
entity I just do the entity uh do the
installer and then basically go to
just add the translation
and check the translation keys.
Okay. There is also a test that is
checking if those translations are
available,
but I would need to search for it. It
sits in one of our B.
So, typically it's best just create the
entities and then you come back and add
the translations. Um, and that's kind of
the preferred way.
Okay.
Yeah, we always have them here. I will
uncomment it to have translations, not
keys.
Okay.
Okay. So, uh tomorrow we may start from
checking this on your site in case
you'll have any other questions, but can
I more or less assume that you
understand what's going on and you have
just some uh
small issues.
Yeah. So from my side I'm I'm
understand that I need to specify this
custom and then it will be filled out
and also I need to refresh that base
because it didn't created me a lot of
the stuff which it should create is this
first creation of the
field. Yeah, for you it will be better
to just start restart the database and
and then as far understood from the uh
session is load demer uh I mean when you
describing so the the next optional
topic is just uh use one more update and
specify this query you specificate in
the
no that was just some additional part
because Vladimir did this uh label and
he actually wanted to know how to change
it for the future. This was something
totally outside of the
This is not related. I I'm just
wondering on this uh optional
uh fix name provider decorator. So I it
need be to change
uh
yeah that's just playing around with the
PHP. Okay. So that's just yesterday we
created a decorator that has hardcoded
that we always render username as first
name, last name and something and here
we actually we want to to render it
based on the selected usernaming type.
Okay. So for example I can show you at
the end what does it do but believe me
that's just only playing around with
PHP. So you don't need to do it you know
PHP very good. So from my point of view,
you don't need to do the optional part.
Uh I'm showing you my screen. Can you
see it?
I can.
Okay. Uh so at the end, what we just
want to do is that whenever we select
where is my user? Whenever we select a
user naming type for user because the
second part one of the part of the not
optional was to create relation between
user and our usernaming type and then
fill the usernaming types with those
values. Right? So we will have three
using naming types with those values.
And we just basically want to
if I select unofficial for my user then
name should be replaced with
first name last with last name middle
with middle blah blah blah. So basically
playing around with PHP seriously you
can try to do it but
so you're saying that in the decorator I
will have my uh field in place and I can
get the current value set to the
the entity you have entity there entity
is our user
we just created relation
uh to the naming type. So now on our
user naming type uh sorry now on our
user entity we have a naming type field.
So uh will in the background we have get
naming type set naming type everything
right? So we just added um a field
called naming type to the user entity.
So, right now in our decorator
and that's not the best.
Uh, that's not the best.
Okay,
just give me a second.
Okay.
Uh inside the decorator
here in this method you have an entity
and this entity when I go to user view
page is going to be a user. So we just
created with the migration the naming
type field on user entity. So we have
get naming type etc. So, if I now go and
select uh
Oh my gosh,
I'm lost.
Uh for my user, if I go now here and
select some naming type, okay,
like unofficial, it will be set on the
user, right? So here now I can do entity
get naming type and it will return me
the fact that I selected unofficial. And
now this naming type uh this is our
custom entity. It has title and format
and format is exactly
right right. So and based on this you
can replace it with real values.
Right. And this is the part was this get
naming type is the part what was created
with this owner C.
Right.
Yeah. And with the fact actually that uh
this entity is extendable and we have
this extendable trait there which has
all those magic methods get set and set
etc. So you can just do this get pass
the
uh name of the variable and it will
return you appropriate value
then yeah I can say that I I'm close at
least to finish with this
this part with the filling of the types
and then check it.
Okay.
Um I have a qu a separate question.
So in the data fixture it does call the
manager close. I know in previous
dealings with Symphony once you close
the entity manager it sort of like is
inaccessible to anybody else and getting
it to reopen is
from my experience pretty difficult. Um
should we avoid Oh says clear. Never
mind. I thought it said close.
I never do the clear in the fixtures.
That was just in the example but you
just need to do flash to push the
changes to database right to flush the
database
and then the clear is not needed there.
Basically uh you execute migrations in a
command from CLI. So the fact that you
closed it will not make any difference
because in every new time that you will
rerun this command it will be opened
again. So it will not do any harm there
actually. Well, if you had a second one,
I keep doing clear.
Yeah, you should close.
Please keep doing clear.
Okay. My only thought with the clear
would be is if you loaded data from some
other entities to update your entities,
you may want to clear that out so that
they're not attached
for further processing. Um, but that
would be the reason why they probably do
that.
Yeah. So this probably is because this
example was uh loaded like together with
a lot of different uh data fixtures. So
maybe this clear was just needed some at
some point. But to be honest uh I would
need to check the code and figure out
why this clear is actually there.
Okay.
Uh okay. So tomorrow we'll start from
actually me asking you if we can go
further or you need some more
clarification for this. If you still
have a time to finish this nonoptional
part uh please do
uh because tomorrow we'll just do
another practice for another topic. So
uh yep I need to ask you to just try to
figure it out and have it for tomorrow.
Yep. Do you have any other questions?
Okay. So, thank you for today. See you
tomorrow.
Thank you. Bye.
Bye.